---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/zz-digital-garden/1-0-2-0-rules/1-0-variant-rules/1-2-differences-from-5e/"}
---

# Welcome to the Wizarding World!
This campaign uses all the core mechanics and rules of D&D (5e 2014), but is adapted using *Wands & Wizards*, a published homebrew add-on system, which I have then *re*adapted to enable character creation and management in DnD Beyond. 

# Differences to 5e
All DnD spells, magic items and feats are replaced by Wizarding World alternatives (DnDBeyond home-brewed). 

Perhaps the most significant differences from 5e come during character creation, which is (for obvious reasons of faithfulness to the WW universe) greatly restricted vs 5e (see [[zz DIGITAL GARDEN/1.0-2.0 RULES/1.0 Variant Rules/1.2 Differences from 5e#Character Creation Conversion Table\|table below]])

These notes, and the associated Site of Many Things (where you are most likely reading this) attempt to collate and publish these variant and house rules for players ahead of Session Zero.

## Character Creation Conversion Table

| 5e                    | W&W                | HH                                                                         |
| --------------------- | ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Race                  | House              | Predetermined: *[[zz DIGITAL GARDEN/1.0-2.0 RULES/1.0 Variant Rules/1.3 Predetermined 'Race' (Hufflepuff)\|Hufflepuff]]*     |
| Class*                | Casting Style      | Predetermined: *Sorcerer*                                                  |
| Subclass or Archetype | School of Magic    | [[zz DIGITAL GARDEN/1.0-2.0 RULES/1.0 Variant Rules/1.5 Schools of Magic - MoC\|School of Magic]]                            |
| Background            | Wand or Background | [[zz DIGITAL GARDEN/1.0-2.0 RULES/1.0 Variant Rules/1.6.1 Backgrounds - MoC\|Background]]                                    |
| Traits                | Wand or Background | Rolled: *[[zz DIGITAL GARDEN/1.0-2.0 RULES/1.0 Variant Rules/1.6 The Wand Chooses the Wizard\|The Wand Chooses the Wizard]]* |

*\*This is where the main difference lies. In DnD Beyond it is not possible to homebrew a Class, and Race (2024)/Species (2024) are both somewhat limited (or my homebrewing skills are... EIther way the end result is much the same*
## Character Creation in this campaign...

In order to make the most of the WaW mechanics whilst still using DnD Beyond to manage characters, this campaign puts all players into a ==single human house== of Hufflepuff (race/species) and ==drops the 'casting styles' entirely== (*Wands and Wizards*: 'WaW'), and instead all players will ==use the original core DnD Sorcerer class==.

Subclass selection is still available, with players choosing a speciality from the various [[zz DIGITAL GARDEN/1.0-2.0 RULES/1.0 Variant Rules/1.5 Schools of Magic - MoC\|Schools of Magic]]. This unlocks some unique spells (only available to students of that school) and may help to inform players' back stories or in-campaign choices.

In order to make varied and interesting characters, players will still have a choice (at Level 3) between metamagic options as well as the opportunity to earn the metamagic feat (and learn two more metamagic options) as your school career progresses. Additionally, [[zz DIGITAL GARDEN/1.0-2.0 RULES/1.0 Variant Rules/1.6.1 Backgrounds - MoC\|Homebrew Backgrounds]] will exist (which in turn inform the *[[zz DIGITAL GARDEN/1.0-2.0 RULES/1.0 Variant Rules/1.6 The Wand Chooses the Wizard\|The Wand Chooses the Wizard]]* process to develop a character's Ideals, Bonds and Flaws) and over time customised Feats will be introduced and can be earned or learned.
## Spells

The entire DnD 5e Spells list is redundant in this campaign. Instead, students will learn from the [[zz DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/3.1 Spells MOC\|Wizarding World spells list]] in a manner similar to that of the Wizard class in DnD 5e, except instead of spending gold to copy scrolls, you will attend lessons, learn and practice spells and - dice Gods permitting - learn to cast them at will, at which point they would be manually added to your Known Spells.

Each year there is a set curriculum of core spells you will be taught, but you may also be able to self-teach (or at least try to) extra-curricular spells. These are all broken down on the main [[zz DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/3.1 Spells MOC\|Spells Listing]] page.

## Potions

Potions are a much bigger thing in the WW vs DnD 5e. Each school year you are taught a [[zz DIGITAL GARDEN/4.0 Potions/4.1 Potions MOC\|standard curriculum of potions]], with the opportunity to research, experiment and potentially create your own [[zz DIGITAL GARDEN/4.0 Potions/4.1 Potions MOC#Extra-Curricular Potions\|Extra-Curricular Potions]].

As this will be a predominantly (perhaps entirely) adult-player campaign, ==love potions are permitted== (though they are not taught at Hogwarts in usual lessons) but any sexual encounters will likely not trigger at all until characters reach a certain age and even then will always 'fade to black'... The prospect of describing a sex scene in detail to my friends is *not* one that appeals to me as a DM.., that much at least *is* the same as standard DnD 5e!

## Items
Most of the mundane items from DnD 5e will still apply in this campaign, however most magical items will be replaced by Wizarding World homebrew alternatives. As items become known about or discovered they will gradually appear on [[zz DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/6.1 Items MoC\|this list of all known items]].
