---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-digital-garden/1-0-2-0-rules/1-0-variant-rules/01-09-wizarding-feats/","dgShowToc":"true"}
---


## Innate/Unique Feats

The following feats are defining traits that certain wizards have at birth (or since their turning in the case of lycanthropy and vampirism). 

These feats must be taken at level 1 (using the Hufflepuff house trait) at character creation, and cannot be gained at any other time.

---

#### Giant's Blood

Even though they are few and far between, it's hard for half-giants and part-giants to hide their genealogy; they tend to turn heads wherever they go. With a broad build, impressive strength and a genetic resistance to magic, wizards with giant blood are powerful allies.

* Increase your Strength score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
* Adult part-giants are between 7 and 9 feet tall and weigh between 300 and 420 pounds. Your size is Medium.
* You are considered one size larger when determining carrying capacity and weight you can push, drag, or lift.
* When a spell or other magical effect inflicts a condition on you, you can use your reaction to resist one condition of your choice. You can’t use this ability again until you finish a long rest.
---

#### Goblin Cunning

The rarest racial combination of all, part-goblins can have goblin ancestry anywhere in their family tree, and it will still make a very noticeable difference. At an average of 4 feet tall, part-goblins may feel out of place in a larger world. However, these small wizards have inherited goblins’ cleverness and often come with big hearts and big personalities.

* Adult part-goblins are between 3 and 5 feet tall and weigh around 110 pounds. Your size is Small.
* You can move through the space of any creature that is of a size larger than yours.
* You have advantage on all Intelligence and Wisdom saving throws against magic.
* You can speak, read, and write Gobbledegook.
---

#### Lycanthropy

You've been attacked by a transformed werewolf, infecting you with the blood curse of lycanthropy. You gain the following benefits:

* Increase your Strength and Constitution scores by 1, to a maximum of 20.
* You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell.

You also gain the following penalties:

* From sunset to sunrise on the night of the full moon, you undergo your werewolf transformation. During the transformation, your alignment changes to Chaotic Evil and your character is placed under HM control.
* For the day of and three days after your werewolf transformation, you suffer a -3 penalty to your Constitution score, gain two levels of exhaustion that cannot be removed and have disadvantage on Constitution saving throws.
* If your condition becomes known, fellow witches and wizards might fear or discriminate against you.
---

#### Metamorph Magic

Once in a great many years, a metamorphmagus is born to a wizarding family with their very particular talent: morphing every aspect of their human appearance. Before becoming an adult, a metamorphmagus will not have complete control over this ability, often letting their emotions or stress get the better of them and losing control.

* At will, you can transform your appearance. As an action, you decide what you look like, including your height, weight, facial features, sound of your voice, hair length, coloration, and distinguishing characteristics, if any. None of your statistics change, you don't appear as a creature of a different size than you, and your basic shape stays the same. If you're bipedal, you can't use this spell to become quadrupedal, for instance. At any time, you can use your action to change your appearance in this way again.
* You can also adapt your body to an aquatic environment, growing webbing between your fingers. As an action, you gain a swimming speed equal to your walking speed.
---

#### Parseltongue

Almost exclusively hereditary, to speak Parseltongue is to magically comprehend and verbally communicate with all snakes and snake-like beasts, like the Runespoor and Basilisk. This oral language has been associated with Dark wizards, owing to Salazar Slytherin's status as a Parselmouth which was passed on to the Gaunt family and Tom Riddle. However, outside of Wizarding Britain, no such association exists.

* You can speak Parseltongue.
---

#### Vampirism

You gain the following benefits:

* You can see in dim light within 120 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades of gray.
* You are stuck at the age and form you were at the time of your undeath. You can't die of old age, you suffer none of the drawbacks of old age, and you can't be aged magically.
* You gain proficiency in Charisma (Persuasion).

You also gain the following penalties:

* You take 1 damage when you start your turn in direct sunlight.
* You have disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight when you, the target of your attack, or whatever you are trying to perceive is in direct sunlight.
* You can't enter a residence without an invitation from one of the occupants.
* You are repelled by the smell of garlic, and touching or eating it causes intense pain.
* Instead of food and water, you must drink animal, human or magical being blood to sustain yourself.
---

#### Veela Charm

Just like part-giants, it’s very rare to find a part-veela. A wizard or witch who inherited veela blood will almost always be the center of attention, a picture of grace and beauty. Unlike half-veela or quarter-veela, part-veela are just as likely to be male as female.

* You gain proficiency in one Charisma skill of your choice.
* As an action, you can attempt to charm a humanoid you can see within 30 ft, who would be attracted to you. It must make a Wisdom saving throw, (if hostile, with advantage). If it fails, it is charmed by you for one hour or until you or your companions harm it. The charmed creature regards you as a friendly acquaintance and feels compelled to impress you or receive your attention. After, the creature knows it was charmed by you. You can’t use this ability again until you finish a long rest.
---

## Standard Feats - Wizarding World

These feats might come from latent natural talent, but are often manifested through hard work and long hours of study. These feats are not restricted to being gained at level 1.

---

#### Aerial Combatant

You're able to keep yourself oriented and lead your targets while flying a broomstick. You gain the following benefits:

* You gain tool proficiency in Vehicles (Broomstick).
* You no longer suffer disadvantage on attack rolls due to flying.
---

#### Detecting Traces

You've learned to feel magic and recognize styles of spells and curses. Using concentration, you sense the presence of magic within 30 feet of you. If you sense magic in this way, you can use your action to see a faint aura around any visible creature or object in the area that bears magic, and you learn the associated spell's school of magic, if any. This ability can penetrate most barriers, but is blocked by 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, or 3 feet of wood or dirt.

---

#### Martial Artist

Whether as a childhood extracurricular activity or a supplement to your magical dueling, you're trained in striking and grappling. You gain the following benefits:

* Your unarmed strike uses a d6 for damage.
* When you hit a creature with an unarmed strike on your turn, you can try to grapple the target as a bonus action.
* You have advantage on attack rolls against creatures you are grappling.
* While a creature is grappled by you, you can use your action and make another grapple check to try one of the following maneuvers:
    * **Pin.** If you succeed, you and the creature are both restrained until the grapple ends.
    * **Takedown.** If you succeed, you make an unarmed strike and the creature is knocked prone.
    * **Disarm.** If you succeed, the creature is forced to drop one item of your choice that it's holding. You can choose to take the item, ending the grapple.
---

#### Occlumency Training

You have developed the presence of mind to resist a mental invasion. When targeted by legilimens, you make a Wisdom saving throw to resist its initial effects, and you have advantage on the Intelligence contests. If you fail your initial saving throw, you are immediately aware that the spell is targeting you. If you succeed on a saving throw or contest, you can let the spell continue and reveal false information, false emotions, or false memories of your choosing. Veritaserum will not work on you, unless you allow it.

---

#### Remarkable Aim

You have unerring accuracy with projectile spells. Your ranged spell attacks ignore half cover and treat three-quarters cover as if it were half cover.

---

#### Steady Caster

You're able to maintain focus, even in stressful situations. You have advantage on Constitution saving throws that you make to maintain concentration on a spell when you take damage.

---

#### Wandless Magic

Through studying ancient tomes or channeling some of the volatile magic of your youth, you're able to perform small magical feats without your wand. If you know any of the following spells, you can cast them without needing a wand or somatic component: accio, alohomora, colovaria, illegibilus, incendio glacia, pereo, wingardium leviosa. You cannot expend a higher level spell slot when casting in this way.


## Standard feats - DnD 5e
Almost all 5e feats are defunct in this campaign. The following exceptions *==are*== available for players to select either as their starting feat (a Hufflepuff feature) or during a levelling up.

---

#### Actor

Skilled at mimicry and disguise, you easily slip into different personas.

* You have advantage on Charisma (Deception) and Charisma (Performance) checks when trying to pass yourself off as a different person.
* You can mimic the speech of another person or the sounds made by other creatures. You must have heard the person speaking, or heard the creature make the sound, for at least 1 minute. A successful Wisdom (Insight) check contested by your Charisma (Deception) check allows a listener to determine that the effect is faked.
---

#### Athlete

You possess incredible physical prowess, excelling in feats of strength and agility.

* Increase your Strength or Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
* When you are prone, standing up uses only 5 feet of your movement.
* Climbing doesn't cost you extra movement.
* You can make a running long jump or a running high jump after moving only 5 feet on foot, rather than 10 feet.
---

#### Dungeon Delver

Years of exploring dungeons have honed your senses and reflexes, granting you heightened awareness in these treacherous environments.

* Increase your Intelligence or Wisdom score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
* You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) and Intelligence (Investigation) checks made to detect the presence of secret doors.
* You have advantage on saving throws made to avoid or resist traps.
* You have resistance to the damage dealt by traps.
* You can search for traps while traveling at a normal pace, instead of only at a slow pace.
---

#### Durable

Your constitution is exceptionally hardy, allowing you to shrug off injuries and recover quickly.

* Increase your Constitution score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
* When you roll a Hit Die to regain hit points, the minimum number of hit points you regain from the roll equals twice your Constitution modifier (minimum of 2).
---

#### Keen Mind

Your mind is a steel trap, effortlessly retaining information and recalling details with astonishing accuracy.

* Increase your Intelligence score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
* You always know which way is north.
* You always know the number of hours left before the next sunrise or sunset.
* You can accurately recall anything you have seen or heard within the past month.
---

#### Linguist

You have a natural talent for languages and codes, effortlessly deciphering and creating them.

* Increase your Intelligence score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
* You learn three languages of your choice.
* You can ably create written ciphers. Others can't decipher a code you create unless you teach them, they succeed on an Intelligence check (DC equal to your Intelligence score + your proficiency bonus), or they use magic to decipher it.
---

#### Observant

Your senses are exceptionally sharp, allowing you to notice subtle details and discern information others might miss.

* Increase your Intelligence or Wisdom score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
* If you can see a creature's mouth while it is speaking a language you understand, you can interpret what it's saying by reading its lips.
* You have a +5 bonus to your passive Wisdom (Perception) and passive Intelligence (Investigation) scores.
---

#### Skilled

You are a quick study, adept at picking up new skills and mastering various tools.

* You gain proficiency in any combination of three skills or tools of your choice.