---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-digital-garden/1-0-2-0-rules/1-0-variant-rules/01-07-upbringing/"}
---

## Wizarding Heritage

Every wizard is human, but wizards are often distinguished by how much magical heritage is in their family tree. Very rarely, wizards will be part-human, inheriting blood and traits from a magical being in their ancestry. Slight prejudices remain around part-human or Muggle-born wizards, but the myths around blood purity have been dispelled.

### A Witch's Childhood

Think about how your character's heritage influenced their childhood experiences, and consider how those experiences have shaped your character's personality and worldview.

### Muggle-borns

Muggle-borns are wizards and witches born to Muggle parents, non-magical folk. Muggle-borns enter an entirely new world when they receive their letter from Hogwarts. Although they’ll have to adapt to wizarding culture, the lessons they’ve learned from the Muggle world will serve them well and help them see things from a different perspective. Additionally, living in a world without magic means they know how to do things the hard way.

### Half-bloods

The vast majority of human wizards are considered half-bloods, wizards that have some combination of magical and Muggle ancestry. Originally used to describe a child of a magical wizard and a non-magical Muggle, half-blood has become an encompassing term. While many half-bloods are raised in the wizarding world, it’s not uncommon for a half-blood to be unaware of their magical side of their family, having a very similar experience to Muggle-borns.

### Purebloods

Purebloods come from a long line of wizards and witches, without a drop of Muggle blood in their veins. Raised in wizarding culture, purebloods have grown up riding broomsticks, playing Quidditch in the yard, and hearing the nursery rhymes of Beedle the Bard. 


<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/1-digital-garden/1-0-2-0-rules/1-0-variant-rules/01-02-differences-from-5e/#wealth-currency-and-coinage" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">



## Wealth, currency & coinage

Family wealth determines starting equipment for first year students (see [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/06.2 Starting Equipment\|06.2 Starting Equipment]]. Weekly/monthly allowances may be given to students from standard or wealthy families.

Currency rules from Wands & WIzards have been replaced by a simplified decimal system (that DnD Beyond can more or less manage). The original rules are provided here as an optional ruleset players can choose to adopt (and manage outside of DnDBeyond)

### Official (Wands & Wizards) Rules (==NOT IN USE==)

>**Optional Coinage**
>Wizard money can often seem strange and incomprehensible to Muggles, so they may be more comfortable using terms they're familiar with, like gold pieces. However, it's actually not too hard to keep straight the values of the copper, silver, and gold coins issued by Gringott’s, when you convert it to Muggle value (United States Dollars are used in the following examples).
>The copper Knut is the smallest denomination. 29 Knuts make one silver Sickle. 17 Sickles (or 493 Knuts) make one Galleon, the large gold coin. Approximately speaking, one Knut is worth one nickel ($0.05), which means a Sickle is $1.45 and a Galleon is $24.65. A Gringott’s Standard ruby is worth 20 galleons (or $493).

### Simplified Currency (for D&D Beyond) (==IN USE==)

**gp**=Galleon
**sp**=Sickle
**cp**=Knut

==Exchange rates==: 100 knuts = *10 sickles* = **1 galleon**


</div></div>
