---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-digital-garden/1-0-2-0-rules/1-0-variant-rules/01-05-6-schools-of-magic-magizoology/"}
---

Magizoologists study magical creatures. As they work with many different creatures, the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures at the Ministry of Magic created a classification of every known beast, being and spirit, ranging from bowtruckles to Hungarian Horntails. Whether harmless or an untameable wizard-killer, magizoologists record the unique traits of beasts for wizardkind’s safety.

### Dragon-Keepers

Dragon-keepers call the dragon reserves home, caring for the most famous classified creature among wizards and Muggles alike. Spending day after day with them, dragon-keepers often learn to see through the eyes of their ward and empathize with the plight of many magical beasts. They seek to understand dragons for the benefit of all.

### Monster Hunters

Alternatively, some take a confrontational style of protection. When a wizarding village is plagued by a growing community of trolls, or they suspect a vampire is the cause of their dead livestock, they turn to a monster hunter. Dark creatures blur into the magical being category, so a monster hunter must deal with intelligent demi-humans just as well as corral a stray beast. It is up to the monster hunter to approach a situation wand blazing or seeking a peaceful resolution.

## Subclass Features

### Biological Studies

At 1st level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Caretaker.** Your study of magical creatures has taught you about their injuries and physiologies. You can cast any known Healing spells on beasts.
* **Folio Bruti.** You have your own personal notebook of beasts where you record your findings. Whenever you add Magical Creatures proficiency to an Ability check, add your Intelligence modifier as a bonus as well.

### Way of the Wild

At 6th level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Wizard's Best Friend.** Your care and compassion towards creatures earns you their trust and respect. You can have a beast companion (see [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/1.0-2.0 RULES/1.0 Variant Rules/01.05.6 Schools of Magic - Magizoology#Your Beast Companion\|Your Beast Companion]] below).
* **Prepared Ambush.** In learning to combat dangerous targets, you know how to place a magical trap, waiting to be sprung. When you cast a spell that targets a single creature or area using a spell slot of 1st level or higher, you can weave that spell into your surroundings, having no immediate effect. The spell is cast when it is triggered by something, which you decide at the time of setting the trap, such as entering an area, getting within a certain distance, or manipulating an object. You can also set conditions for creatures that don't trigger the spell, such as specific people or those who say a certain password. Using this ability expends a spell slot two levels higher than the intended spell. For example, to set a 1st level spell as a magical trap, you must expend a 3rd level spell slot. If the spell requires a target, the spell can only target one triggering creature, or if it affects an area, the spell's area of effect is centered on the triggering creature. If the spell conjures hostile creatures, they appear as close as possible to the triggering creature and attack. If the spell requires concentration, it lasts its full duration. A trap can be detected by a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC, or by casting specialis revelio.

### Outdoorswizard

At 10th level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Survivalist.** You are particularly adept at traveling through and surviving in natural environments. You gain proficiency in either Herbology or Survival. Between Herbology and Survival, choose one that you're proficient in; your proficiency bonus is doubled when you make any check using that chosen skill. Also, you and your group gain the following benefits:
    * Difficult terrain doesn’t slow your group’s travel.
    * Your group can't be surprised while resting, as long as you are keeping watch.
    * If a hit die roll is lower than their proficiency bonus, your group can reroll it once and take the higher result.
* **Monster Hunting.** You have vast experience studying, tracking, and hunting creatures, allowing you to quickly adapt to threats. If you spend 10 minutes studying a beast or dark being's tracks, you automatically learn what the creature is, its size, and its speed. If you choose, that creature becomes and remains Hunted until you use this feature again. You have advantage on Wisdom checks to track a Hunted creature and on Intelligence checks to recall information about them. While you're within 30 feet of a Hunted creature that you're actively tracking, you can sense its direction relative to you and distance in feet away from you.

### Genus Genius

At 14th level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Beast Whisperer.** You've learned the body language and social rituals of many beasts. As an action, you can use a Wisdom (Magical Creatures) check to attempt to soothe and calm a hostile beast. On success, the beast believes you mean it no harm and is neutral to the party. The effect is canceled if you or a party member inflicts any damage or condition on that beast or any identical beasts. You cannot use this feature again until you complete a short or long rest.
* **Exploited Vulnerabilities.** You know exactly how to hit where it hurts. As a bonus action, you can call out an enemy's weaknesses to your allies. The target takes an additional 2d8 damage from your allies' damaging spells until the start of your next turn. You have a number of uses equal to your Intelligence modifier, and uses are restored after a long rest.

### Sixth Sense

At 18th level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Draconic Empathy.** Wizard's Best Friend required. Your dedication as a dragon-keeper allows you to deeply understand dragons. If you've ever raised a dragon from an egg, it will view you as an ally and can serve as your beast companion. Tamed dragons have their own hit points, hit dice, and ability scores, and use natural attack actions.
* **Hunter's Reflexes.** You've precisely honed your instincts in combat. As a reaction to a creature you can see casting a spell or attacking, you can cast a spell with a casting time of one action, bonus action, or reaction, targeting only that creature. Conditions and damage are applied before the target completes their action. Damage dealt to the target imposes disadvantage on its attack roll. You cannot use this feature again until you complete a short or long rest.

## Your Beast Companion

### Bonding with Your Beast

With 8 hours of uninterrupted communication and bonding, you can call upon a non-hostile beast to serve as your faithful companion. When you gain this feature, select your companion from any Medium or larger single beast of challenge rating 1/4 or lower. You can have only one beast companion at a time.

Your beast companion obeys your commands as best it can. The beast moves and acts during your turn, but you determine its actions, decisions, attitudes, and so on. You and your companion can move and act in any order you choose. If you are incapacitated or absent, your companion acts on its own.

Your companion will fight in unison with you. The following rules apply while it is bonded to you by this feature:

* It can't use its natural attack actions, but it can make unarmed strikes. Its damage die for unarmed strikes becomes a d4.
* It is proficient in two saving throws and two skills of your choice, in addition to its normal proficiencies.
* It uses your proficiency bonus for attacks, as well as for saving throws and skills in which it is proficient.
* It adds your proficiency bonus to its armor class.
* To find your companion's maximum hit points, take the stat block's hit points and add 5 times your caster level. Whenever you gain an Ability Score Improvement, you can also allocate two points among your companion's ability scores. If your beast companion is ever slain or dismissed, a bond may be formed with another beast and that beast will progress according to your current level.

### Commanding Your Beast

You train your companion to follow certain commands. You have a number of Command Dice equal to half your level (rounded down) + your Wisdom modifier. A command die is a d6, and it is used to issue specifically trained commands to beasts, including your beast companion.

You can issue one command at a time to a beast within 120 feet of you that can hear you; the beast must be able to hear you to follow the command, and the command is wasted if the beast doesn't fulfill it before the end of its next turn. When a command die is rolled, its use is expended. Your command die becomes a d8 when you reach 14th level.

You regain all command dice when you finish a long rest.

### Beast Commands

Your companion knows two beast commands of your choice. It learns an additional command when you reach 14th level. You can also teach any friendly beast other than your companion only one beast command by spending at least 1 hour per day for 7 days training the creature.

* **Attack.** You can use your bonus action and roll a command die to issue this command. Your companion can use its action to take one of its natural attack actions. However, it can't use its Multiattack action, if it has one. If the attack hits, add the result of the command die to the damage roll.
* **Down.** You can use your bonus action and roll a command die to issue this command. Your companion uses its reaction