---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-digital-garden/1-0-2-0-rules/1-0-variant-rules/01-05-1-schools-of-magic-charms/"}
---

Charms, a type of spell that alters properties of a thing, can be some of the most powerful spells in existence. The Fidelius Charm, for example, can completely hide a person or a place in such a way that no one can find them unless given the Secret. Memory Charms can be so strong as to remove a person's memory or damage their mind permanently.

### Duellists

Many charms have been weaponized for magical combat. A wizard's duel is a formal practice in wizarding culture in which wizards or witches faced each other and, at the count of three, attempted to disarm, stun, injure, defeat, or kill each other in order to force submission. A duellist is a master of this art, competing in organized, refereed, and non-lethal duels to test and hone their skills.

### Enchanters

Other wizards try their hand at enchantments, a nearly permanent charm placed on an inanimate object. These bewitched objects can range from handy (like a self-stirring coffee mug), to complex (like a top-tier racing broom), to bizarre (like a book acting like a rabid version of its subject matter). An enchanted or bewitched object can be powerful in the hands of the right wizard.

## School of Magic Spells

| Spell Level | Spell                                  |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------- |
| 2nd         | [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Muffliato\|Muffliato]]                          |
| 4th         | [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Capacious Extremis\|Capacious Extremis]]                 |
| 5th         | [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Obliviate\|Obliviate]], [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Piertotum Locomotor\|Piertotum Locomotor]] |

## Subclass Features

### Bewitching Studies

At 1st level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Called Shot.** You've honed your aim to be able to strike very specifically with your dueling Charms. When casting a Charm, you can target specific items or body parts, as well as restrict the effects of the charm to only that specific item or body part.
* **Protective Enchantments.** Any charm spell you cast that affects an area (cube, line, sphere, or cone) has its area's size doubled.

### Advanced Charmswork

At 6th level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Target Practice.** Your steady hand and hours of practice have given you an edge. Whenever you add your spellcasting ability modifier to a spell attack roll, add half your Dexterity modifier (rounded up) as a bonus as well.
- **Professional Charmer**. You've learned to weave your enchantments throughout objects. If you cast a single target Charm with a duration longer than Instantaneous on an individual object, the effects have a permanent duration, if desired, until dispelled by you. This feature does not remove Concentration or Dedication requirements.

### Unique Talents

At 10th level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Muggle Dueling.** You've trained in non-magical dueling as a last-ditch effort. Add your proficiency bonus to your damage rolls for unarmed strikes and to any Strength checks involved with grappling or disarming a wizard.
* **Obliviator.** Instead of simply erasing memories, when you cast [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Obliviate\|Obliviate]], you can choose to implant very detailed false memories. These memories are undetectable by the target of the spell, but if others examine the target's memories (through [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Legilimens\|Legilimency]] or a Penseive), they might be able to detect that they're false.

### Refined Techniques

At 14th level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Wand and Shield.** You've uncovered an ancient dueling style, allowing both offense and defense at the same time. When you cast [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Protego\|Protego]] or [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Protego Maxima\|Protego Maxima]], you can transition the spell's casting to your off-hand, freeing up your wand to cast other spells. The spell's dedication now expends a bonus action instead of an action, and you are able to cast and maintain another concentration or dedication spell with your wand. Any factor that affects maintaining concentration is applied individually to each effect (e.g. upon taking damage make a Constitution saving throw for each spell).
* **A Duty to Protect.** When you cast [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Piertotum Locomotor\|Piertotum Locomotor]], concentration is no longer required, twice as many objects can be animated, and the duration is extended to 1 hour.

### Pinnacle of Casting

At 18th level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Lightning-Fast Wand.** You've honed your skills in the dueling ring to be able to cast spells twice as fast as the average wizard. If you don't already have it, Quickened Spell is added to your metamagic options and does not count towards your metamagic count. When you use the Quickened Spell metamagic to cast a spell as a bonus action, you are able to cast any spell as your action and the normal bonus action spellcasting rules do not apply.
* **Secret-Keeper.** You add the [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Fidelius Mysteria Celare\|Fidelius Mysteria Celare]] spell to your list of known spells. It does not count against your number of spells known, and cannot be forgotten to learn another spell.