---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-digital-garden/1-0-2-0-rules/1-0-variant-rules/01-04-predetermined-class-sorcerer/","tags":["DnDB-done"]}
---

As all students at Hogwarts are innately magical, the 'class' selection in DnDBeyond is restricted to Sorcerer only (at least until you sit your O.W.L.s, after which multiclassing may be introduced). This means that ==for all players, charisma will be your spellcasting ability== and you will get to choose metamagic options at level three.

As all DnD 5e spells are redundant you will not need to select anything from the sorcerer spells list in DND Beyond. Instead you will learn spells throughout your time at Hogwarts (in a way not dissimilar to Wizards in 5e).

==Players in this campaign will select the Sorceror 'class' in D&D Beyond.==

# Base Sorcerer Features

## Font of Magic

### Sorcery Points

You can never have more sorcery points than shown on the table for your level. You regain all spent sorcery points when you finish a long rest.

### Flexible Casting

You can use your sorcery points to gain additional spell slots, or sacrifice spell slots to gain additional sorcery points.

**Creating Spell Slots.** You can transform unexpended sorcery points into one spell slot as a bonus action on your turn. The created spell slots vanish at the end of a long rest.

| Slot Level | SP Cost | Slot Level | SP Cost |
|------------|---------|------------|---------|
| 1st        | 2       | 4th        | 6       |
| 2nd        | 3       | 5th        | 7       |
| 3rd        | 5       |            |         |

**Converting a Spell Slot to Sorcery Points.** As a bonus action on your turn, you can expend one spell slot and gain a number of sorcery points equal to the slot's level.

## Metamagic
>You will choose two of these at level 3 and can develop the Metamagic Adept feat later in your school career to learn 2 more.

You can use only one Metamagic option on a spell when you cast it, unless otherwise noted.

### Careful Spell

When you cast a spell that forces other creatures to make a saving throw, you can protect some of those creatures from the spell’s full force. To do so, you spend 1 sorcery point and choose a number of those creatures up to your spellcasting ability modifier (minimum of one creature). A chosen creature automatically succeeds on its saving throw.

### Distant Spell

When you cast a spell that has a range of 5 feet or greater, you can spend 1 sorcery point to double the spell's range. When you cast a spell that has a range of touch, you can spend 1 sorcery point to make the range of the spell 30 feet.

### Empowered Spell

When you roll a spell's damage, you can spend 1 sorcery point to reroll a number of damage dice up to your spellcasting ability modifier (minimum one). You must use the new rolls.

You can use Empowered Spell even if you have already used a different Metamagic option during the spell's casting.

### Extended Spell

When you cast a spell that has a duration of 1 minute or longer, you can spend 1 sorcery point to double its duration, to a maximum duration of 24 hours.

### Heightened Spell

When you cast a spell that forces a creature to make a saving throw to resist its effects, you can spend 3 sorcery points to give one target of the spell disadvantage on its first saving throw made against the spell.

### Quickened Spell

When you cast a spell that has a casting time of 1 action, you can spend 2 sorcery points to change the casting time to 1 Bonus Action for this casting.

### Subtle Spell

When you cast a spell, you can spend 1 sorcery point to cast it without any somatic or verbal Components.

### Twinned Spell

When you cast a spell that targets only one creature and doesn’t have a range of self, you can spend a number of sorcery points equal to the spell’s level to target a second creature in range with the same spell (1 sorcery point if the spell is a cantrip).

## Extended Metamagic options

**When creating your character ==DO== enable 'Optional Class Features'**. This will open the following additional metamagic options to you (*the additional spells it opens up are irrelevant as they are for DnD 5e*)

### Seeking Spell  
If you make an attack roll for a spell and miss, you can spend 2 sorcery points to reroll the d20, and you must use the new roll.  
You can use Seeking Spell even if you have already used a different Metamagic option during the casting of the spell.

### Transmuted Spell  
When you cast a spell that deals a type of damage from the following list, you can spend 1 sorcery point to change that damage type to one of the other listed types: acid, cold, fire, lightning, poison, thunder.