---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-digital-garden/1-0-2-0-rules/1-0-variant-rules/01-11-potion-making/"}
---

Potions are essential in the wizarding world, especially at St. Mungo's. While Potions is a core class at Hogwarts, brewing your own is optional.

### Brewing Requirements

Potion brewing doesn't require dice rolls or DM supervision. If the requirements are met, a PC can brew in the background. The DM will confirm the recipe and ingredient quality.

**Requirements:**

* Access to a potions laboratory (equipped with a cauldron, stirring rods, heat source, and water).
* A potioneer's kit.
* Knowledge of the recipe.
* The necessary ingredients.

### Learning Recipes

About half of all recipes are learned at Hogwarts. Each year, the Potions textbook includes five new recipes. To learn more, students can:

* Search the Hogwarts library.
* Seek tutoring from advanced potioneers.
* Go on adventures.
* Deconstruct existing potions (requires a lab, kit, [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Specialis Revelio\|Specialis Revelio]] spell, and a Wisdom (Potion-Making) check).

### Obtaining Ingredients

Ingredients can be found in various locations, and their value is high due to their magical uses and the dangers of harvesting.

* Plant-based ingredients usually require [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Herbologist's Tools\|Herbologist's Tools]].
* Animal-based ingredients usually require a [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Potioneer's Kit\|Potioneer's Kit]].
* Ingredient quality (Poor, Normal, Superior) depends on harvesting skill.

### Potion Effectiveness

Potion effectiveness depends on the brewer's skill and ingredient quality.

| Proficiency | Poor Ingredients | Normal Ingredients | Superior Ingredients |
|---|---|---|---|
| None | Flawed | Flawed | Normal |
| One | Flawed | Normal | Normal |
| Both | Normal | Normal | Exceptional |

* Proficiency refers to Wisdom (Potion-Making) and potioneer's kit proficiency.
* Skill can compensate for Poor ingredients, but Exceptional potions always require Superior ingredients.