---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-digital-garden/1-0-2-0-rules/1-0-variant-rules/1-10-spellcasting/"}
---

### Magic in the Wizarding World

Magic in the Wizarding World is fluid and flexible, limited only by a wizard's knowledge and experience. Some spells depend on specific emotions, while others require mental focus and precise wand movements. Spellcasting is personal, with each witch or wizard having their own style and repertoire.

This system focuses on spellcasters, with extra attention given to how spells work. Not every spell is lethal, allowing for the ==non-lethal combat that is expected in wizarding society==. 

## Spellcasting

### Damaging Spells

Many spells inflict damage, but the effect varies greatly depending on the spell's intent. Spells can be lethal or non-lethal. Dueling spells are often non-lethal, but Dark magic can kill.

#### Non-Lethal Magic

Standard spells cannot kill, regardless of the caster's intent. A creature reduced to 0 hit points by a standard spell is knocked out non-lethally.

#### Lethal Magic

Dark spells are potentially lethal. ==A creature reduced to 0 hit points by a Dark spell dies==. It's possible to injure a creature with a Dark spell and then incapacitate it non-lethally with a non-Dark spell.

### Duration

#### Concentration

This system retains standard 5e rules for spell duration and concentration, but "dedication" spells require strategic use.

#### Dedication
>[!warning]

If a spell requires dedication, you must maintain concentration ==and use an action at the start of each turn to uphold it==. Losing dedication ends the spell.

**Factors that break dedication:**

* Casting *any* other spell.
* Losing line of sight to the target (for spells affecting a specific target).
* Losing concentration.

### Spell Types

#### Dark

Dark magic is used to harm, control, or kill. It includes spells, potions, and creatures. Dark magic can damage the caster's soul and often requires malicious intent. However, it's not always "evil," as Aurors may use it in dire situations.

Using Dark spells (clearly denoted in the spell name in both the [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/3.1 Spells - Overview\|Spells List]] and DnD Beyond Homebrew), attracts attention and raises questions about your character's motivations. Unforgivable Curses are illegal and result in imprisonment. Casting them or killing with Dark magic may require a corruption roll.

#### Defensive

Defensive magic counters or nullifies other magic. Examples include shield charms and counter-curses.

#### School of Magic

School of Magic Spells are learned by joining a specific school, not by leveling up. They cannot easily be learned by students specialising in other schools of magic.

### Spell Targets

#### Magical Beings
"Being" is one of the three classifications used by the Ministry of Magic to catalogue the various magical creatures that inhabit the wizarding world.

“Beings” refers to creatures that possess the ability to think, reason, and communicate in ways similar to humans. This category includes creatures like house-elves, goblins, and giants, among others. The Ministry of Magic defines a “Being” as any creature with enough intelligence to participate in the governance of the magical world, though this definition has been debated throughout history. 

While many beings are integrated into wizarding society, some, such as centaurs and merpeople, prefer to live independently, often rejecting Ministry oversight or involvement in human affairs.

All humans are beings, as are goblins, vampires, hags, giants, house-elves, veela, werewolves, and merpeople. [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/10.0 CREATURES/WW Bestiary/10.0.1 Magical Creatures Overview#Magical Beings\|Click here for a comprehensive list]].

#### Beasts (Fantastic & Mundane)

"Beast" is one of the three classifications used by the Ministry of Magic to catalogue the various magical creatures that inhabit the wizarding world. A Beast is a living thing that is not intelligent enough to abide by wizarding laws, or in other words, anything that does not fit the criteria of a Being (or deliberately isolated "Non-Beings"). Wild animals and all the creatures students learn about in Care of Magical Creatures are classified as Beasts.

Some creatures appear to fit the qualifications that define a Being and are capable of intelligent speech, such as [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/10.0 CREATURES/WW Bestiary/Acromantula\|Acromantula]]s, [[Sphinx\|Sphinx]]es, [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/10.0 CREATURES/5e Bestiary/Manticore\|Manticore]]s, and [[Erkling\|Erkling]]s, but have not been offered Being status due to their extremely violent and even lethal tendencies, which interferes with their role in a lawful society. They are thus classified as Beasts. [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/10.0 CREATURES/WW Bestiary/10.0.1 Magical Creatures Overview#Fantastic Beasts\|Click here for a comprehensive list]]

#### Magical Non-Beings

Officially termed "Non-Human Spiritous Apparitions," non-beings is the final category to describe a phenomenom that defies explanation. In the Wizarding World, "Non-Beings" refers to entities that exist without possessing life in the traditional sense. 

These creatures are not born, nor do they die in the way living organisms do. Instead, they are conjured by powerful magical forces or emotions, and they persist as unnatural, often malevolent, manifestations. Among the most notable examples of Non-Beings are [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/10.0 CREATURES/WW Bestiary/Dementor\|Dementor]]s and [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/10.0 CREATURES/WW Bestiary/Poltergeist\|Poltergeist]]s, they are a dark reflection of human fears and emotions.

##### Subcategory: Spirits

The Spirit classification was created for ghosts who felt the term "being" was inappropriate for them, and the term "Non-Being" offensive. This highlights the divide between the living and the dead in the wizarding world.

#### Objects

An object is an inanimate item. Movement, speech, or other signs of life might be due to enchantments, not true sentience.
