---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-digital-garden/1-0-2-0-rules/1-0-variant-rules/1-5-3-schools-of-magic-divination/"}
---

Divination is an unusual branch of magic involving gathering insights into past, present and future events. It is an inexact science, requiring interpretation of tea leaves and omens. Some believe true divination involves meditation and a belief of non-self to access the Inner Eye, while Centaurs have a unique way of practicing divination by observing the movement of planets, moons, and stars.

### Seers

Naturally gifted in divination, a seer is a wizard or witch who can see into the future with their Inner Eye. While some seers unknowingly utter prophecies about strangers, other seers will glimpse their own futures. Albus Dumbledore believed that seeing into the future is incredibly difficult, because the complexity of every action and its consequences.

### Legilimens

Legilimency is a far more tangible ability, navigating through the many layers of a person's mind and interpreting one's findings. Muggles call this “mind-reading,” but practitioners disdain the term as naive. They often practice occlumency, shielding your mind from the invasion of another legilimens. Although rare natural legilimens exist, it is a field of study that requires great dedication and care.

*(Refer to [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/0 Legilimens & Occlumens\|Legilimens & Occlumens]] for further details)*

## School of Magic Abilities

| Required Level | Ability                                                          |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 2nd            | [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/1.0-2.0 RULES/1.0 Variant Rules/1.5.3 Schools of Magic - Divination#Cleromancy\|Cleromancy]]         |
| 3rd            | [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/1.0-2.0 RULES/1.0 Variant Rules/1.5.3 Schools of Magic - Divination#Tasseomancy\|Tasseomancy]]       |
| 7th            | [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/1.0-2.0 RULES/1.0 Variant Rules/1.5.3 Schools of Magic - Divination#Cartomancy\|Cartomancy]]         |
| 9th            | [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/1.0-2.0 RULES/1.0 Variant Rules/1.5.3 Schools of Magic - Divination#Crystal-gazing\|Crystal Gazing]] |

## Subclass Features

### Clairvoyant Studies

At 1st level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Fortune Teller.** You've particularly taken to astronomy, tasseography, and crystal gazing. You gain a Diviner's Kit and proficiency in using a Diviner's Kit.
* **Sensing Danger.** You add half your proficiency bonus to your Initiative and cannot be surprised while conscious.

### Farseeing

At 6th level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Foresight.** You start to see omens everywhere you look. After a long rest, roll two d20s and record those rolls as your two foresight rolls. When you or a creature you can see is about to make an attack roll, saving throw, or ability check, you can expend one of your foresight rolls to use that number, once per turn. After a long rest, you lose and reroll your foresight rolls. At level 10, you gain another foresight roll, for a total of 3.
* **Legilimency.** You add the [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Legilimens\|Legilimens]] spell to your list of known spells. It does not count against your number of spells known, and cannot be forgotten to learn another spell.

### The Unseeable

At 10th level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Palmistry.** You've mastered reading life lines. After observing a creature for 30 seconds, as an action, you can sense its current hit points.
* **Skilled Occlumens.** [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Legilimens\|Legilimens]] and veritaserum will not work on you, unless you allow it. You can choose to let legilimens continue and reveal false information, false emotions, or false memories of your choosing.

### Revealed Intentions

At 14th level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Aura Reading.** Your connection with your Inner Eye allows you to see colorful auras around intelligent beings. You can immediately sense if a being is hostile, friendly or neutral.
* **Darting Eyes.** Legilimency required. As a bonus action, you can cast [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Legilimens\|Legilimens]] in combat to see the next spell or action a creature is planning, as long as their eyes are visible.

### Mystical Knowledge

At 18th level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Vivid Visions.** Your connection to your Inner Eye gives you a lucid visions of the immediate future. As a bonus action, you can see a vision of your next action and its immediate consequences, rolling any required rolls and hearing a description of the results. If you choose that action, your vision becomes reality, using all the same rolls. The vision is instantaneous, and takes up no time. After you use this ability, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.
* **Master of Minds.** Legilimency required. Your skill in navigating thoughts is unparalleled. You can now cast legilimens at-will, verbally or non-verbally. Any attempt to resist your legilimens spell is made at disadvantage.

## Divination Abilities

All of the following abilities can only be performed by using a Diviner's Kit. If you are not proficient in using the Diviner's Kit, there's a 33 percent chance your ability fails and you receive a random reading. You will not know your ability has failed. The DM makes this roll in secret.

### Cartomancy

You gain insight into the past, present, and future of a being other than yourself by performing a tarot card reading. Your subject asks a single question concerning a specific goal, event, or activity to occur within 7 days. By spending 6 sorcery points and 10 minutes, the cards tell you a story (a truthful reply from the DM). The cards' meaning might be a short phrase, a cryptic rhyme, or an omen.

This ability doesn't take into account any possible circumstances that might change the outcome, such as a different use of magic or the loss or gain of a companion. If you perform a reading two or more times before finishing your next long rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent chance for each reading after the first that you get a random reading. The HM makes this roll in secret.

### Cleromancy

You focus your inner eye upon rune-inscribed sticks or Grindylow bones as you cast them on the ground. As an action, you can spend 2 sorcery points to interpret their meaning and advise one being of your choice within 30 feet of you. The next time the being makes an ability check, attack roll or saving throw within the next 10 minutes, the target can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to the attack roll or saving throw. This effect can only be active on one target at a time. If you are concentrating on a spell at the time of interpreting the sticks or bones, you lose concentration.

### Crystal-gazing

By gazing into the cloudy depths of the crystal ball, you can spend 7 sorcery points to see a particular creature you choose for 10 minutes. The target must make a Wisdom saving throw, which is modified by how well you know the target and the sort of physical connection you have to it. If a target knows you're using this ability, it can fail the saving throw voluntarily if it wants to be observed.

| Knowledge    | Save Modifier |
| ------------ | ------------- |
| Secondhand   | 0             |
| Firsthand    | -5            |
| Familiar     | -10           |

On a successful save, the target isn't affected, and you can't use this ability against it again for 24 hours. On a failed save, this ability lets you see as if you were there, within 10 feet of the target. Your view moves with the target, remaining within 10 feet of it for the duration. Instead of targeting a creature, you can choose a location you have seen before as the target of this ability. When you do, your view shows that location and doesn't move.

### Tasseomancy

The future is revealed through a uniquely complex reading of symbols and patterns within residual tea leaves a cup recently consumed by a being other than yourself. After ten minutes of preparation, you can spend 3 sorcery points to interpret the cup's omens and predict the results of a specific course of action that your subject plans to take within the next 30 minutes. The HM chooses from the following possible omens:

* Weal, for good results
* Woe, for bad results
* Weal and woe, for both good and bad results
* Nothing, for results that aren't especially good or bad

This ability doesn't take into account any possible circumstances that might change the outcome, such as a different use of magic or the loss or gain of a companion. If you cast the spell two or more times before completing your next long rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent chance for each casting after the first that you get a random reading. The DM makes this roll in secret.