---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-digital-garden/1-0-2-0-rules/1-0-variant-rules/1-5-5-schools-of-magic-healing/"}
---

Healing magic is devoted to improving the physical and mental condition. With many different spells and potions, healing magic requires a wizard to be well-versed in magical conditions and their different remedies.

### Healers

A healer is the wizarding world equivalent of a Muggle doctor. They tend to the sick and injured, often finding employment in St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, England's primary wizarding hospital. Healers may find themselves facing artifact accidents, Dark creature bites, magical diseases, potion poisoning, or spell damage.

### Mediwizards

A mediwizard takes a much more active role in preserving life; if a healer is a doctor, then a mediwizard is a first responder. Mediwitches travel with research expeditions, watch over professional Quidditch, accompany monster hunters, and dive into war to save lives.

## School of Magic Spells

| Spell Level | Spell                                     |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| Cantrip     | [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Anapneo\|Anapneo]]                               |
| 3rd         | [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Intus Sunt\|Intus Sunt]]                            |
| 6th         | [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Protego Totalum\|Protego Totalum]], [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Vulnera Sanentur\|Vulnera Sanentur]] |

## Subclass Features

### Medical Studies

At 1st level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Natural Remedies.** Your interest in healing has led you to study potions and poultices. You learn the recipe for [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/4.0 Potions/Star Grass Salve\|Star Grass Salve]] and gain proficiency in one of the following skills: Herbology, Medicine, Potion-Making.
* **Unshakable Nerves.** Your study of injuries and magical diseases have given you a strong stomach and iron will. You have advantage on saving throws against being frightened.

### Dedicated Protector

At 6th level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Accelerated Recovery.** Your healing spells are more effective. Whenever you use a spell of 1st level or higher to restore hit points to a creature, the creature regains additional hit points equal to 2 + the spell’s level.
* **Durable Shielding.** Your shield spells are more effective. Whenever you use a defensive spell of 1st level or higher that improves a creature’s AC or grants temporary hit points, the creature gains additional temporary hit points equal to 2 + the spell’s level, which last the duration of the spell's effect.

### Moral Support

At 10th level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Phoenix Song.** You have a soothing presence. You gain proficiency in Persuasion and advantage on Charisma checks to ease someone's pain or help them maintain composure.
* **Empathic Bond.** You feel others' pain deeply, which gives insight into their suffering. When you cast a Healing spell on another creature, they gain additional hit points and you lose hit points equal to your proficiency bonus, unless their hit points are fully restored by the Healing spell or unless this effect would reduce your hit points to 0.

### Combat Medic

At 14th level, you gain one of the following features.

* **Extended Assistance.** You've pushed the limits of your healing magic to saves lives on the front lines. All of your Healing spells' ranges are doubled. If a Healing spell has a range of touch, its new range is 60 feet.
* **A Saving-People Thing.** You will throw yourself in the line of fire to protect others. If a creature you can see within 10 feet of you is targeted by a spell or attack, you can use your reaction to cast [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/3.0 Spells/Protego\|Protego]] and leap in front of that creature, becoming the new target of the attack. If the spell or attack affects both of you and you step in front of that creature, you will be subject to the effects of that spell or attack twice. 

### Savior 

At 18th level, you gain one of the following features. 

* **Phoenix Tears.** Your saint-like devotion to others and bravery in the face of danger has earned the respect of phoenixes. If you spend 8 hours reaching out with your magic, a phoenix will appear in a flash of fire and shed tears into a vial for you. Phoenix tears remove all curses, diseases, and poisons affecting a creature. Also, the creature regains all its hit points. A phoenix will only appear and fill a vial with tears when you do not have any other tears, and the phoenix tears will lose their healing properties if anyone other than you possesses the tears or tries to administer them. 
* **Healing Pulse.** Your healing and defensive magic have intertwined, energizing nearby allies. Whenever you cast a defensive spell, each non-hostile creature within 30 feet of you (including you) is healed a number of hit points equal to half its level.