---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-digital-garden/1-0-2-0-rules/1-0-variant-rules/1-6-1-9-background-socialite/"}
---

# Socialite

You seem to make friends wherever you go. It might be your forceful personality or the delicious gossip, but no matter what it is, people are drawn to you. You enjoy being the center of attention and feel invigorated by lively crowds, but you might get carried away with impressing your admirers.

**Skill Proficiencies:** Deception, Persuasion
**Equipment:** A ring with a family crest or another type of heirloom jewelry, and a peacock feather quill

### Background Feature: Rumor-Monger

Your skill at making connections has earned you inroads with people in the know. When you attempt to uncover a particularly juicy secret or a dangerous rumor, your sources may be able to help you or point you in the right direction.

### **d4 Wood (Personality Traits)**

| d4 | Wood    |
| -- | ------- |
| 1  | Alder   |
| 2  | Apple   |
| 3  | Aspen   |
| 4  | Pear    |
**Alder**

While the wood itself is unyielding, the ideal owner of an alder wand is not stubborn or obstinate, but often helpful, considerate and most likeable. When an alder wand is happily placed, it becomes a magnificent, loyal helpmate. Of all wand types, alder is best suited to non-verbal spell work, whence comes its reputation for being suitable only for the most advanced witches and wizards.

**Apple**

Applewood wands are not made in great numbers. They are powerful and best suited to an owner of high aims and ideals, as this wood mixes poorly with Dark magic. It is said that the possessor of an apple wand will be well-loved and long-lived, and wizards of great personal charm often find their perfect match in an applewood wand.

**Aspen**

Wand-quality aspen wood is prized for its stylish resemblance to ivory and usually outstanding charmwork. The proper owner of the aspen wand is often an accomplished duellist, for the aspen wand is particularly suited to martial magic. An infamous and secretive eighteenth-century duelling club, the Silver Spears, only admitted owners of aspen wands. Owners are generally strong-minded and determined, likely to be attracted by quests; this is a wand for revolutionaries.

**Pear**

The golden-toned wood of pear produces wands of splendid magical powers. Possessors of pear wands are usually popular and well-respected, and no one knows of a single instance where a pear wand was in the possession of a Dark witch or wizard. Pear wands are among the most resilient, and they commonly keep a remarkable appearance of newness, even after many years of hard use.

### **d6 Core (Ideal)**

| d6  | Core (Ideal)                                                                |
| --- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1-2 | Unicorn Hair: People. I like seeing smiles on people’s faces. That’s all that matters. |
| 3-4 | Dragon Heartstring: Might. The strong are meant to lead and the weak will follow. |
| 5-6 | Phoenix Feather: Destiny. Nothing and no one can steer me away from my higher calling. |
### **d6 Length (Bond)**

| d6  | Length (Bond)                                                                                                    |
| --- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1-2 | 10": I want to be famous, whatever it takes.                               |
| 3-4 | 12": Family and institutions are most important--friends and sycophants come and go.                                            |
| 5-6 | 13": It is my duty to lead and inspire others.                                        |
### **d6 Flexibility (Flaw)**

| d6  | Flexibility (Flaw)                                                                  |
| --- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1-2 | Solid: I'm never satisfied with what I have--I always want more. |
| 3-4 | Reasonably Springy: I secretly believe that everyone is beneath me. |
| 5-6 | Swishy: I'm a (misguided) romantic and a sucker for a pretty face. |
## Variant Socialite: Follower 
Instead of building social status through the force of your own personality, you've found success by following someone who is more influential or popular than you are. You know how to stay useful to them and use their reputation to influence others. Whether you see yourself as a hero's sidekick or a bully's sycophant, you're happy to watch from the sidelines and be second best. 

### **Variant Feature: Forgettable Face** 
If a person were to take you at face value, you'd come across as inconsequential and they would assume your unimportance. It's also unusually difficult to pick your face out from a crowd, making it easier for you to blend in and harder for someone to blame you in particular.