---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-digital-garden/1-0-2-0-rules/1-0-variant-rules/1-8-magical-pets/"}
---

## Magical Pets in Hogwarts

From owls and rats to toads and cats, Hogwarts students have been helped and hindered by various creature companions. Animals of all shapes and sizes have long been associated with magic. Muggles often called them familiars and thought them to have supernatural abilities assisting with the practice of magic. The animals owned by Hogwarts students aren’t familiars in this sense; they are largely pets, rather than supernatural creatures.

When you select a magical pet, it forms a special connection with you and understands one language you speak. Your magical pet acts independently of you, but it always obeys your verbal commands to the best of its ability (so is player instructed, but DM controlled, *a la* the Bag of Tricks in 5e)

In combat, your pet rolls its own initiative and acts on its own turn. A magical pet can attack and take other actions as normal. Hogwarts only allows one magical pet per student.

## Owls

The old British superstition that it is unlucky to see owls flying by daylight is readily explained, for when wizards break cover to send messages by day, something dramatic must be afoot in the magical world. As a (mostly) nocturnal bird of prey, the owl is inevitably seen as sinister by Muggles, but they are faithful servants and the most common method used by wizardkind across the world for magical communication.

The advantages of owls as messengers are those very qualities that make them suspicious to Muggles: they operate in the darkness; they have exceptionally well-developed night vision; and are agile and stealthy. Whether because they possess an innate magic or their ancestors have been trained for it, owls learn very quickly and thrive on tracing the witch or wizard for whom their letters are intended.

Trained owls are expensive, and it is quite usual for a wizarding family to share a single owl, or else only use Postal owls. However, when a witch or wizard has their own personal owl, they can enjoy the convenience of sending anyone a letter or package for free.

| d8 | Owl Breeds |
|---|---|
| 1 | Tawny Owl |
| 2 | Screech Owl |
| 3 | Snowy Owl |
| 4 | Barn Owl |
| 5 | Great Grey Owl |
| 6 | Scops Owl |
| 7 | Eagle Owl |
| 8 | Barred Owl |
## Cats

Cats are the creatures most commonly associated with magic. We’ve all seen images of a witch sat on her broomstick accompanied by her black cat. It’s an association that goes back centuries. In the Salem Witch Trials of 1692, Tituba, one of the first to be accused of witchcraft, was said to have both a black and a red cat. Malleus Maleficarum, the best-known treatise against witchcraft, mentions cats and their untrustworthy nature. As clever and independent creatures, maybe it’s not surprising that cats have been linked with witches and maligned by ignorant Muggles.

Cats are believed to be the most intelligent companions for witches and wizards, and, depending on the breed (and amount of Kneazle heritage), can often be trained to perform complex tasks, as long as the owner has earned their loyalty.

| d10 | Cat Breeds |
|---|---|
| 1 | Black Cat |
| 2 | Calico Cat |
| 3 | Ginger Cat |
| 4 | Manx Cat |
| 5 | Nebelung Cat |
| 6 | Ocicat |
| 7 | Tabby Cat |
| 8 | Tonkinese Cat |
| 9 | Tortoiseshell Cat |
| 10 | White Cat |
## Toads

Of the approved animals permitted to students as pets at Hogwarts, the toad is by far the least popular. As a species, toads have as long an association with witchcraft as owls and cats do, but they have gradually appeared less and less frequently as pets at Hogwarts.

History tells us that toads were particularly useful as ingredients in the folk cures practiced in the Dark Ages, and as magical pets, they seem to have a particular link with what were known in 16th century Europe as ‘cunning folk’. These were so-called white witches and healers who practised folk medicine using natural ingredients. Ursula Kemp, an English cunning woman and midwife (tried for witchcraft in 1582), was said to have had a black toad called Pygine.

While toads are looked down upon, their usefulness is found in their role as magical guinea pigs. Whether practicing harmless charms or tweaking the effects of minor potions, toads will unprotestingly play the subject of an experiment, easily absorbing liquids through their skin. As long as the magical effect doesn’t cause pain, the toad won’t think any less of its owner.

| d8 | Toad Species |
|---|---|
| 1 | Common Toad |
| 2 | Crested Toad |
| 3 | Dragon Toad |
| 4 | Giant Purple Toad |
| 5 | Harlequin Toad |
| 6 | Horned Toad |
| 7 | Three-Toed Tree Toad |
| 8 | Western Green Toad |
## Alternative Pets

In our campaign, Hogwarts is not nearly as strict on students’ pets as it has been at other times. Students are allowed a variety of magical pets, with permission obtained prior to the start of the school year. Pets are required to fit within a standard owl cage and have an CR1 rating or lower by the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures.

Pets found in the wizarding world are almost always smarter than their mundane counterparts, thus earning the title of magical pets. No matter what the species, a magical pet will form a bond with its owner and can often serve as an extra set of eyes, alerting their owner when they spot something amiss or locate a familiar person.

| d10 | Alternative Pets |
|---|---|
| 1 | Fruit Bat |
| 2 | Pipistrelle Bat |
| 3 | Goliath Tarantula |
| 4 | Miniature Firecrab |
| 5 | Adder |
| 6 | Grass Snake |
| 7 | Puffskein |
| 8 | Pygmy Puff |
| 9 | Black Rat |
| 10 | Dumbo Rat |