---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-digital-garden/7-0-people/7-1-p-cs/07-1-4-1-back-story-basil-featherstone/"}
---


<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/1-digital-garden/7-0-people/7-1-p-cs/07-1-4-basil-featherstone-nick-s-character/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




## >[[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/7.0 PEOPLE/7.1 PCs/07.1.4.1 Back Story (Basil Featherstone)\|Basil Featherstone's Back Story]]

Background: Dreamer
Wand: 14" (haunted by dreams of future), Redwood (lucky), Dragon Heartstring (agent of change), Rigid


</div></div>


## WhatsApp Thread

>The concept I came up with was a young man who is highly attuned to the spirit world. Now everyone sees ghosts in Wizarding World but this young man sees ALL ghosts, perhaps even some that others can't see (I dont know if this is possible in the canon so please let me know if not feasible). 
>Ghosts are attracted to him, and they like him. The Trigger for this power is that he was either Muggle Born, or Half-Blood and he was still born, only to be revived a short while later. This means he kind of walks the ethereal plane. 
>**Core Concept**: Basil is a reserved and observant young wizard who has always been able to see and converse with spirits, even those unseen by others. This rare ability has made him somewhat of an outsider, but it also grants him insights into the hidden histories and secrets of the wizarding world.
>Now, Im happy to go either way, just the ability to see the future in dreams, or the ghost whisperer concept. I liked the ghost thing because I think it might be a fun thing for him to have pieces of information that perhaps dont make sense, that have been spoken to him.
Would that work do you think? 
Thoughts on any of this before I dive too deep?

>==Maybe don't choose then. Go full 'yes and' and absorb both?
>Perhaps you've always been able to see the ghosts and hear their cryptic babbling but these visions in your sleep only started a few years ago? You assume it is somehow connected - maybe a poltergeist took an interest in you recently and until the visions escalated to WW2 you'd assumed it was just his latest way of fucking with you. But since so few of your kind exist you've no real way to know. Perhaps the library at Hogwarts can help etc==

>