---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-digital-garden/6-0-items/06-3-wizarding-tools/"}
---

## Wizarding Tools

A tool helps you to do a number of things, usually associated with a Hogwarts subject or wizarding profession. A defining factor of all of these tools is that they come in a compact and convenient container. These cases will either fit within or alongside a standard schoolbag.

* **[[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Astronomer's Tools\|Astronomer's Tools]].** This tubular case contains a featherlight-charmed travel telescope, a sextant, an astro-compass, several star charts, spare parchment, ink and a quill.
* **[[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Curse-breakers' Tools\|Curse-breakers' Tools]].** The Curse-breakers' tools include a curse sneakoscope, a compact secrecy sensor, an eye loupe set, a collapsible retriever tool with a hook on the end, a small mirror and a very large pair of tweezers. Proficiency with these tools lets you add your proficiency bonus to any ability check you make using finite incantatem or to remove a curse from an object or an area.
* **[[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Diviner's Kit\|Diviner's Kit]].** The Diviner's kit is a small carpet bag containing a wide range of divination equipment, including tea leaves, a tea cup and saucer, a travel tea pot, grindylow bones, rune inscribed sticks, a deck of tarot cards and a small crystal ball. Proficiency with this kit allows you to make more accurate predictions with your Divination Abilities. Divination Abilities cannot be performed without this kit.
* **[[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Herbologist's Tools\|Herbologist's Tools]].** This set of tools includes a trowel, hand cultivator, pruning shears, dragon-hide gloves, twine, small burlap sacks, a few small pots and a pair of earmuffs.
* **[[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Potioneer's Kit\|Potioneer's Kit]].** The Potioneer's Kit includes a set of brass scales, silver knife, cutting board, mortar and pestle, measuring cups, eye dropper and vials, jars and flasks, as well as some staple ingredients that aren't included in recipes.