---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-digital-garden/6-0-items/6-4-cloaks-armour/"}
---

In the wizarding world, mundane armor is useless against spells. The best way to survive a duel is to avoid being hit.

* **[[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Cloak - Winter\|Cloak - Winter]].** One of the required supplies for attendance at Hogwarts, this heavy winter cloak keeps its wearer quite warm in cold, snowy winters. A winter cloak helps conceal a duelist's intended movements from their opponents, but the weight and bulk can be a hindrance.

* **[[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Cloak - Silk\|Cloak - Silk]].** All of the concealing benefits of a cloak with none of the unwieldy bulk, a silk cloak is the preferred travel wear of experienced duelists. The smooth and lightweight material allows for a full range of movement and nimbleness.

* **[[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Cloak - Shield\|Cloak - Shield]].** Popular in times of war and always in high demand among Aurors, a shield cloak is a standard silk cloak that's been enchanted with the protego charm. While nowhere near as effective as the actual Shield Charm, the enchantment provides minor spell resistance that can make the difference between life and death.

* **[[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Cloak - Demiguise\|Cloak - Demiguise]].** A demiguise cloak is a rough cloak woven with a thick silvery-white fiber. The outer layer is made from the hair of a Demiguise, a rare and elusive magical creature from Asia with the ability to turn invisible at will. The cloak functions as perfect camouflage from all angles, but when the wearer moves, there is a perceptible delay before the cloak matches its new surroundings. In combat, this often gives its wearer a visible but blurred appearance.

* **[[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Cloak - Disillusionment\|Cloak - Disillusionment]].** Created by weaving pellucidi pellis and a few other enchantments into a silk cloak, the disillusionment cloak has no delay, functioning as an effective invisibility cloak. However, in a certain light, an onlooker may be able to see a slightly distorted outline of the cloak's shape. In combat, it's quite effective, but as with any invisibility cloak, the wearer becomes partially visible if they open it to cast a spell.

| Cloak                     | Cost  | Armor Class (AC)          | Stealth      | Weight |
| ------------------------- | ----- | ------------------------- | ------------ | ------ |
| [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Cloak - Winter\|Cloak - Winter]]          | 9 g   | 11 + Dex modifier (max 2) | Disadvantage | 20 lb. |
| [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Cloak - Silk\|Cloak - Silk]]            | 25 g  | 11 + Dex modifier         | —            | 12 lb. |
| [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Cloak - Shield\|Cloak - Shield]]          | 75 g  | 12 + Dex modifier         | ─            | 12 lb. |
| [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Cloak - Demiguise\|Cloak - Demiguise]]       | 400 g | 13 + Dex modifier (max 2) | Advantage    | 18 lb. |
| [[1 DIGITAL GARDEN/6.0 Items/Cloak - Disillusionment\|Cloak - Disillusionment]] | 750 g | 14 + Dex Modifier         | Advantage    | 10 lb. |
